Lectures/Module-iv-BrittleDeformation.md, before:

# Brittle Deformation

When rocks undergo rapid, localised deformation, refer to the process as "brittle deformation". Typically brittle features in the Earth's crust are faults and we can understand much about the stress and deformation if we understand faults, their rupture and associated seismic energy release.

## Lecture 1

<iframe src="../slideshows/Module-iv-lecture1-Brittle-deformation.reveal.html" title="Slideshow" width=100%, height=470, allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Lecture 2

<iframe src="../slideshows/Module-iv-lecture2-Brittle-deformation.reveal.html" title="Slideshow" width=100%, height=470, allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Lecture 3

<iframe src="../slideshows/Module-iv-lecture3-Brittle-deformation.reveal.html" title="Slideshow" width=100%, height=470, allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Lecture 4

<iframe src="../slideshows/Module-iv-lecture4-Brittle-deformation.reveal.html" title="Slideshow" width=100%, height=470, allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Links
  - Wattle courses
  - Programmes and courses 
  - Other ... 

## Background Reading

Commit message:

update figures and add module 4

Lectures/Module-iv-BrittleDeformation.md, after:

# Brittle Deformation

When rocks undergo rapid, localised deformation, refer to the process as "brittle deformation". Typically brittle features in the Earth's crust are faults and we can understand much about the stress and deformation if we understand faults, their rupture and associated seismic energy release.

## Lecture Slides

The slides are originally made using PowerPoint and then convert to html / javascript format through stacking a series of snapshots. Therefore it does not work well if printing them from your browser. But a pdf version of the original format is provided in the Wattle to have three slides each page on the left with space for notes on the right.

### Overview of deformation mechanisms

The first part of this module introduces the general concepts related to different deformation mechanisms, including brittle and ductile deformation.

<iframe src="../slideshows/Module-iv-lecture0-Brittle-deformation.reveal.html" title="Slideshow" width=100%, height=470, allowfullscreen></iframe>
Login to Wattle for the pdf version.

## Fundamentals of brittle deformation

<iframe src="../slideshows/Module-iv-lecture1-Brittle-deformation.reveal.html" title="Slideshow" width=100%, height=470, allowfullscreen></iframe>
Login to Wattle for the pdf version.

## Joints and Veins

<iframe src="../slideshows/Module-iv-lecture2-Brittle-deformation.reveal.html" title="Slideshow" width=100%, height=470, allowfullscreen></iframe>
Login to Wattle for the pdf version.

## Faults, fault zones and earthquakes

<iframe src="../slideshows/Module-iv-lecture3-Brittle-deformation.reveal.html" title="Slideshow" width=100%, height=470, allowfullscreen></iframe>

## 2021 Manfold and 2011 Tohoku earthquake

<iframe src="../slideshows/Module-iv-lecture4-Brittle-deformation.reveal.html" title="Slideshow" width=100%, height=470, allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Links
  - Wattle courses
  - Programmes and courses 
  - Other ... 

## Background Reading
