Lectures/Module-iv-lecture1-Brittle-deformation.reveal.md, before:

---
title: Brittle deformation 1
separator: '<--o-->'
verticalSeparator: '<--v-->'
revealOptions:
    transition: 'fade'
    slideNumber: true
    width:  1200
    height: 800
    margin: 0.07 # Factor of the display size that should remain empty around the content (7% typically)
---

# EMSC 3002

## Fractures, joints and fracture criteria

  - Louis Moresi (convenor)
  - Romain Beucher (lecturer)
  - **Chengxin Jiang** (lecturer)
  - Stephen Cox (curriculum advisor)

Australian National University

_**NB:** the course materials provided by the authors are open source under a creative commons licence. 
We acknowledge the contribution of the community in providing other materials and we endeavour to 
provide the correct attribution and citation. Please contact louis.moresi@anu.edu.au for updates and 
corrections._

<--o-->

## Resources

1. **Fossen, H, 2011.** *Structural Geology.* Cambridge University Press, 2nd Edition **Chapter 11**
1. **Davis, G.H. and Reynolds, S.J., 1996.** *Structural Geology of Rocks and Regions.* 2nd Edition, John Wiley & Sons. **Chapter 7**
1. **McClay, K.R. 1991.** *The Mapping of Geological Structures.* John Wiley & Sons.  **Chapter 3**
1. **Park, R.G., 1995.** *Foundations of Structural Geology.* Blackie & Sons Ltd. **Chapter 2**

<--o-->

## Intended learning outcomes

Students will be able to:

- one
- two
- three

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide1.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide2.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide3.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide4.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide5.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide6.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide7.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide8.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide9.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide10.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide11.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide12.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide13.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide14.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide15.jpg" -->
<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide16.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide17.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide18.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide19.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide20.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide21.jpg" -->
<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide22.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide23.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide24.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide25.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide26.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide27.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide28.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide29.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide30.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide31.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide32.jpg" -->

Commit message:

update figures and add module 4

Lectures/Module-iv-lecture1-Brittle-deformation.reveal.md, after:

---
title: Brittle deformation 1
separator: '<--o-->'
verticalSeparator: '<--v-->'
revealOptions:
    transition: 'fade'
    slideNumber: true
    width:  1200
    height: 800
    margin: 0.07 # Factor of the display size that should remain empty around the content (7% typically)
---

# EMSC 3002

## Module4.1 - Fundamentals of brittle deformation 

  - Louis Moresi (convenor)
  - Romain Beucher (lecturer)
  - **Chengxin Jiang** (lecturer)
  - Stephen Cox (curriculum advisor)

Australian National University

_**NB:** the course materials provided by the authors are open source under a creative commons licence. 
We acknowledge the contribution of the community in providing other materials and we endeavour to 
provide the correct attribution and citation. Please contact louis.moresi@anu.edu.au for updates and 
corrections._

<--o-->

## Resources

1. **Fossen, H, 2011.** *Structural Geology.* Cambridge University Press, 2nd Edition.
1. **van der Pluijm, B.A. and Marshak, S., 2003.** *Earth Strcture: an introduction to structural geology and tectonics.* W. W. Norton & Company, Ltd.
1. **Davis, G.H. and Reynolds, S.J., 1996.** *Structural Geology of Rocks and Regions.* 2nd Edition, John Wiley & Sons.
1. **McClay, K.R. 1991.** *The Mapping of Geological Structures.* John Wiley & Sons. 

<--o-->

## Intended learning outcomes

What you will learn about the brittle deformation

- Concepts of fractures and brittle deformation
- Four modes of fracture and its relation to stress state
- The effects of internal defects on material strength
- The development of tensile and shear fractures
- Mohr failure envelope and a composte failure criterion
- Fricitional sliding: concepts and implications
- Effect of environmental factors on failure

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide1.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide2.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide3.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide4.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide5.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide6.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide7.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide8.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide9.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide10.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide11.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide12.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide13.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide14.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide15.jpg" -->
<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide16.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide17.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide18.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide19.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide20.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide21.jpg" -->
<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide22.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide23.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide24.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide25.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide26.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide27.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide28.jpg" -->

<--o-->

<!-- .slide: data-background="Figures-Brittle_deformation1/slide29.jpg" -->
